The resource I chose to learn was the khanacademy one with the sql resource because the documentation was organized and written for beginners and sql is a database that I hear brought up a lot, so I figured it was the one I should learn. I have some experience with postgres already, however, I only logged into postgres on my local machine and as far as creating tables and inputting/querying data to tables, I did not use postgres for that at all. For those processes, I used node express and a library called sequelize to create the table and access it through the http protocols post, put, get, and delete. Once those were set up in my code, I used another program called insomnia that allowed me to connect to the api point I had set in my node express code and from there I was able to input data into the table with the correct api route and inserting the json code that matched my table in sequelize.

One thing that I have to remember when learning a new language is not to get worried that i don't know all of the keywords to a language yet to do everything I need it to do. I was fortunate that sql is similar to postgres in some of the querying commands and data creation ones such as create table, but in instances where I'm completely new to something I need to take a step back and be assured that I'll get the information down with a bit of practice like I usually do.

Some things I noticed while creating the table was that I would forget the order of values I had to input when I wanted to insert an entry. With insomnia I only had to match the table value with what I wanted to insert in any order, but just using the database directly, it only knows what I want to store where based on the order I created it. After that I found querying to be straight forward logic as the command is written in the same way I would look through a table myself going, "select *names* from *table*, inserting my personal values in the names and table fields.